start: allow users to call job start command to start stopped jobs (#24150)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/commands/job/start.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad job start command reference'
description: |
  The nomad job start command starts the latest version of an existing job
  with a status of Stopped.
---

# nomad job start command reference

Use the `nomad job start` command to start the latest version of an existing job
with a status of Stopped. Refer to [Job statuses] for status explanations.

## Usage

```shell-session
nomad job start [options] <job_id>
```

The `nomad job start` command requires the job ID. Nomad creates new version of

> the job based on it's most recent version. This command fails if the job is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the job based on its most recent version. This command fails if the job is not
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Commands: job start'
description: |

>   The start command is used to start a stopped job.

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer if we just reference a status of `Stopped`, only because a job can have a CLI status of `dead` but not be stopped.

>   The start command is used to start a stopped job.

Reviewer 2: If you explicitly stop a job, the CLI status will be `dead (stopped)`.  Maybe that update should be make to the job statuses docs?

>   The start command is used to start a stopped job.

Reviewer 3: We could remove all mention of CLI status from this page if that would confuse the reader... however,  if I use the CLI to query a job's status, and the result is `dead`... are you saying the job status command returns `dead (stopped)`, `dead (failed)`, or `dead (scaled down)` ? That's not clear from the current [CLI job status command page](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/commands/job/status) - `dead (stopped)` is buried in one of the examples, but what statuses the `nomad job status` command returns are not listed in that page. Do you know offhand where that's defined in the code? (saves me looking) 

The Job concept page has a [Job statuses section](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/concepts/job#job-statuses) that maps CLI status to UI status. Based on your comment, sounds like that mapping is not correct so I need to update.

The job status content has this definition of Stopped: "The Stopped status indicates that a user has manually stopped the job. Nomad's garbage collector has not yet removed or purged the job." [link](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/concepts/job#ui-statuses)

>   The start command is used to start a stopped job.

Reviewer 2: At the moment (although maybe we should change this?), failed and scaled down service jobs, and successfully completed batch jobs, will just show `dead`.  Only when a job has manually been stopped does it show `dead (stopped)`

>   The start command is used to start a stopped job.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the explanation! I grabbed this thread and will make a small change to the job statuses section in the Job page.

---

# Command: job start

The `job start` command is used to start a stopped job.

The start command will use a Consul token with the following preference:
first the `-consul-token` flag, then the `$CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable.
Because the consul token used to [run] the targeted job version was not
persisted, it must be provided to start if the targeted job version includes
Consul Connect enabled services and the Nomad servers were configured to require
[consul service identity] authentication.

The Start command will use a Vault token with the following preference:
first the `-vault-token` flag, then the `$VAULT_TOKEN` environment variable.
Because the vault token used to [run] the targeted job version was not
persisted, it must be provided to start if the targeted job includes
Vault policies and the Nomad servers were configured to require [vault policy]
authentication.

## Usage

```shell-session

> nomad job start [options] <job>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
nomad job start [options] <job_id>
```

Change to use `<job_id>`, which is the syntax that the [Manage Jobs tutorial](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/tutorials/manage-jobs/jobs-version) uses.

```

> The `job start` command requires one input: the job ID. Nomad will start the
> latest version of the job that is not stopped. If the job has not previously
> been stopped, this command will fail.

Reviewer 3: "Nomad will start the latest version of the job that is not stopped." -> is this correct or do you mean "of the job that is stopped" ??

Also, suggestion based on assumption that job must have Stopped status:

```suggestion
The `nomad job start` command requires the job ID. Nomad starts the latest
version of the job. This command fails if the job does not have a **Stopped**
or `dead` status.
```

Reviewer 2: Your suggestion makes more sense here, I've updated it in one of my latest commits.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with the `submit-job`
capability for the job's namespace. The `list-jobs` capability is required to
run the command with a job prefix instead of the exact job ID. The `read-job`
capability is required to monitor the resulting evaluation when `-detach` is

> not used.

Reviewer 3: For easier reading (ie, scanning), I'm trying to figure out a way to present this info not in a paragraph. Thoughts?

```
When Nomad uses ACLs, the `nomad job start` command requires a token in these
scenarios.

| Scenario | Capability   |
| --------- | -------------- |
| Job uses a namespace  | `submit-job` |
| Run the command with a job prefix instead of an exact job ID  | `list-jobs`  |
| Monitor the resulting evaluation when you do not use this command's `detach` option | `read-job`  |
```

or

```
When Nomad uses ACLs, the `nomad job start` command requires a token with one of
the following capabilities based on the specific scenario:

- The `submit-job`capability for the job's namespace
- The `list-jobs` capability to run the command with a job prefix instead of the
  exact job ID
- The `read-job` capability is required to monitor the resulting evaluation when
  you do not use the `-detach`option.
```

## General Options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

## Start Options

> - `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. A new evaluation ID
>   will be output, which can be used to examine the evaluation using the
>   [eval status] command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. Nomad outputs a new
  evaluation ID, which you can use to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command.
```

> - `-consul-token`: If set, the passed Consul token is sent along with the Start
>   request to the Nomad servers. This overrides the token found in the
>   `$CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `-consul-token`: If set, Nomad sends the Consul token with the
  request. This overrides the token found in the `$CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN`
  environment variable.
```

> - `-vault-token`: If set, the passed Vault token is sent along with the Start
>   request to the Nomad servers. This overrides the token found in the
>   `$VAULT_TOKEN` environment variable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `-vault-token`: If set, Nomad includes the Vault token with the request. This
  overrides the token found in the `$VAULT_TOKEN` environment variable.
```

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

> Start a previously stopped job:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Start a previously stopped job.
```

---
layout: docs

> page_title: 'Commands: job start'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
page_title: 'nomad job start command reference'
```

Changed to match the new title format

description: |
  The nomad job start command starts the latest version of an existing job
  with a status of Stopped.
---

> # Command: job start

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# nomad job start command reference
```

Changed to match the new title format

> The `job start` command is used to start a stopped job.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Somehow we missed deleting L11, which is replaced by L12-13.

Use the `nomad job start` command to start the latest version of an existing job
with a status of Stopped. Refer to [Job statuses] for status explanations.

If your Nomad servers use [consul service identity] authentication and your job
uses Consul Connect services, you must supply a Consul token. Nomad does not
persist the Consul token when you [run] a job. Use the `-consul-token` flag to
pass the token to the `nomad job start` command. Alternately, you may use the
`$CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable.

If your Nomad servers require [Vault policy] authentication, you must supply a
Vault token. Nomad does not persist the Vault token when you [run] a job.
Use the `-vault-token` flag to pass the token to the `nomad job start` command.

> Alternately, you may use the `$VAULT_TOKEN` environment variable.

Reviewer 3: I am not able to find the "allow_unauthenticated" parameter on the Consul or Vault configuration pages. 

`[consul service identity]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#allow_unauthenticated`

`[vault policy]: /nomad/docs/configuration/vault#allow_unauthenticated`

[March 5 commit 5c4d0e9](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/commit/5c4d0e923d2d5ae945aa9c41cd77713131023008#diff-b01a4ae1eca8612aa3a690dd715c64062b07aaa4a68ad17a020bc061bee7830e) removed the `allow_unauthenticated` consul config parameter.

allow_unauthenticated parameter removed from Vault config on Feb 28 [commit 726053](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/commit/72680531741bdfc40c584159a54aae7a87389c1a)

Reviewer 2: Good catch, thanks!

  evaluation ID, which you can use to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command.

- `-consul-token`: If set, Nomad sends the Consul token with the
  request. This overrides the token found in the `$CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN`
  environment variable.

- `-vault-token`: If set, Nomad includes the Vault token with the request. This
  overrides the token found in the `$VAULT_TOKEN` environment variable.

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

Start a previously stopped job.

```shell-session
$ nomad job status
ID       Type     Priority  Status          Submit Date
example  service  50        dead (stopped)  2025-02-11T15:33:27-05:00

$ nomad job start example
==> 2025-02-11T15:34:48-05:00: Monitoring evaluation "8b715538"
    2025-02-11T15:34:48-05:00: Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    2025-02-11T15:34:49-05:00: Evaluation within deployment: "866ca498"
    2025-02-11T15:34:49-05:00: Allocation "4d050576" created: node "8e17fa4d", group "echo"
    2025-02-11T15:34:49-05:00: Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> 2025-02-11T15:34:49-05:00: Evaluation "8b715538" finished with status "complete"
```

[eval status]: /nomad/docs/commands/eval/status

> [consul service identity]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#allow_unauthenticated

Reviewer 3: `/nomad/docs/configuration/consul#allow_unauthenticated` I don't see the `allow_unauthenticated` parameter on this page.

> [vault policy]: /nomad/docs/configuration/vault#allow_unauthenticated

Reviewer 3: The allow_unauthenticated parameter has been removed. Refer to my L15-24 comment.
